# Pyarmor

* [Homepage](http://pyarmor.dashingsoft.com) ([中文版网站](http://pyarmor.dashingsoft.com/index-zh.html))
* [Examples](src/examples)
* [WebUI Demo](http://pyarmor.dashingsoft.com/demo/index.html)
* [Documentation](src/user-guide.md)

Pyarmor is a command line tool used to obfuscate python scripts, bind
obfuscated scripts to fixed machine or expire obfuscated scripts. It
protects Python scripts by the following ways:

* Obfuscate code object to protect constants and literal strings.
* Obfuscate byte code of each code object in runtime.
* Clear f_locals of frame as soon as code object completed execution.
* Verify the license file of obfuscated scripts while running it.

Refer to [Protect Python Scripts By Pyarmor](docs/protect-python-scripts-by-pyarmor.md)

## Support Platforms

- Python 2.5, 2.6, 2.7 and Python3
- Prebuilt Platform: win32, win_amd64, linux_i386, linux_x86_64, macosx_x86_64
- Embedded Platform: Raspberry Pi, Banana Pi, TS-4600 / TS-7600

## Quick Start

### Installation

The simple way is pip

```
    pip install pyarmor
```

Or get source package from [pypi/pyarmor](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyarmor)

Pyarmor is a command line tool, main script is pyarmor.py. After you
get source package, unpack it to any path, then run paramor.py as
common python script

```
    python pyarmor.py
```

If Pyarmor is installed  by pip, there is a command will be avaiable in Python script path

```
    pyarmor
```

And there is a `webui` used to obfuscate script in gui mode:

```
    pyarmor-webui
```

Note that the `webui` doesn't include all the features of Pyarmor, it
can help you to understand Pyarmor quickly.

### Basic Usage

The following examples show how to obfuscate a python package
**pybench**, which locates in the **examples/pybench** in the source
of pyarmor.

Obfuscate package **pybench** directly:

    python pyarmor.py obfuscate --recursive --src examples/pybench --entry pybench.py

    # This command will create an extra file .pyarmor_capsule.zip in the
    # current path, and save all the obfuscated scripts to default output
    # path "dist"
    #
    cd dist

    # Check obfuscated script
    cat pybench.py

    # Run obfuscated script
    python pybench.py

Use project to manage obfuscated scripts:

    python pyarmor.py init --src examples/pybench --entry pybench.py projects/pybench

    # This command will create 2 files: .pyarmor_config, .pyarmor_capsule.zip
    # in the project path "projects/pybench"
    cd projects/pybench

    # And there is a shell script "pyarmor" is created at the same time.
    # (In windows, the name is "pyarmor.bat")
    #
    # Now run command "build" to obfuscated all the scripts
    #
    ./pyarmor build

    # Check obfuscated script
    cd dist
    cat pybench.py

    # Run obfuscated script
    python pybench.py

Pack obfuscated scripts with py2exe, cx_Freeze etc. The setup script
of py2exe or cx_Freeze must be exists to run this command

    python pyarmor.py pack -t py2exe examples/py2exe/hello.py

More usage, refer to [User Guide](src/user-guide.md)

## License

Pyarmor is published as shareware. Free trial version never expires, the limitation is

- Project Capsule generated by trial version is NOT random, but FIXED by hardcode.

A registration code is required to generate random project capsule.

- Personal user: one registration code is enough.
- Company user: one registration code is only used for one project/product.

For details, refer to [LICENSE](LICENSE).

### Purchase

Click [Purchase](https://order.shareit.com/cart/add?vendorid=200089125&PRODUCT[300871197]=1),

A registration code will be sent to your immediately after payment is completed successfully.

After you receive the email which includes registration code, copy
registration code only (no newline), then replace the content of
"license.lic" with it.

### Check License

```
    python pyarmor.py --version
```

**The registration code is valid forever, it can be used permanently.**

## [Change Log](ChangeLog.rst)

## [Report issuses](https://github.com/dashingsoft/pyarmor/issues)

Any question feel free email to <jondy.zhao@gmail.com>, or click here
to [report an issue](https://github.com/dashingsoft/pyarmor/issues)
