.. _understanding obfuscated scripts:

Understanding Obfuscated Scripts
================================

.. _global capsule:

Global Capsule
--------------

The :file:`.pyarmor_capsule.zip` in the ``HOME`` path called `Global
Capsule`. |PyArmor| will read data from `Global Capsule` when obfuscating
scripts or generating licenses for obfuscated scripts.

All the trial version of PyArmor shares one same :file:`.pyarmor_capsule.zip`,
which is created implicitly when executing command ``pyarmor obfuscate``. It
uses 1024 bits RSA keys, called `public capsule`.

For purchased version, each user will receive one exclusive `private capsule`,
which use 2048 bits RSA key.

The capsule can't help restoring the obfuscated scripts at all. If your `private
capsuel` got by someone else, the risk is that he/she may generate new license
files for your obfuscated scripts.

It's not used when running the obfuscated scripts, so need not distribute it
with obfuscated scripts to the end users.

Obfuscated Scripts
------------------

After the scripts are obfuscated by |PyArmor|, in the `dist` folder you find all
the required files to run obfuscated scripts::

    dist/
        myscript.py
        mymodule.py

        pytransform/
            __init__.py
            _pytransform.so, or _pytransform.dll in Windows, _pytransform.dylib in MacOS
            pytransform.key
            license.lic

Before v5.7.0, the runtime files are saved in the same folder with obfuscated
scripts. Here is file list in the `dist` folder::

    myscript.py
    mymodule.py

    pytransform.py
    _pytransform.so, or _pytransform.dll in Windows, _pytransform.dylib in MacOS
    pytransform.key
    license.lic

The obfuscated scripts are normal Python scripts. The module `dist/mymodule.py`
would be like this::

    __pyarmor__(__name__, __file__, b'\x06\x0f...', 1)

The entry script `dist/myscript.py` would be like this::

    from pytransform import pyarmor_runtime
    pyarmor_runtime()
    __pyarmor__(__name__, __file__, b'\x0a\x02...', 1)

.. _bootstrap code:

Bootstrap Code
--------------

The first 2 lines in the entry script called `Bootstrap Code`. It's only in the
entry script::

    from pytransform import pyarmor_runtime
    pyarmor_runtime()

For the obfuscated package which entry script is `__init__.py`. The bootstrap
code may make a relateive import by leading "."::

    from .pytransform import pyarmor_runtime
    pyarmor_runtime()

.. _runtime package:

Runtime Package
---------------

The package `pytransform` which is in the same folder with obfuscated scripts
called `Runtime Packge`. It's required to run the obfuscated script, and it's
the only dependence.

Generally this package is in the same folder with obfuscated scripts, but it can
be moved anywhere. Only this package in any Python Path, the obfuscated scripts
can be run as normal scripts.

There are 4 files in this package::

    pytransform/
        __init__.py                  A normal python module
        _pytransform.so/.dll/.lib    A dynamic library implements core functions
        pytransform.key              Data file
        license.lic                  The license file for obfuscated scripts

        
Before v5.7.0, the runtime package has another form `Runtime Files`

.. _runtime files:

Runtime Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

They're not in one package, but as four separated files::

    pytransform.py               A normal python module
    _pytransform.so/.dll/.lib    A dynamic library implements core functions
    pytransform.key              Data file
    license.lic                  The license file for obfuscated scripts
  
Obviously `Runtime Package` is more clear than `Runtime Files`.
    
.. _the license file for obfuscated script:

The License File for Obfuscated Script
--------------------------------------

There is a special runtime file `license.lic`, it's required to run the
obfuscated scripts and generated by PyArmor.

When executing ``pyarmor obfuscate``, a default one will be generated, which
allows obfuscated scripts run in any machine and never expired.

To bind obfuscated scripts to fix machine, or want to expire the obfuscated
scripts, use command ``pyarmor licenses`` to generate a new `license.lic` and
overwrite the default one.

.. note::

    In PyArmor, there is another `license.lic`, which locates in the source path
    of PyArmor. It's required to run `pyarmor`, and issued by me, :)
    
Running Obfuscated Scripts
--------------------------

The obfuscated scripts is a normal python script, it can be run by normal python
interpreter::

    cd dist
    python myscript.py

Firt :ref:`Bootstrap Code` is executed:

* Import `pyarmor_runtime` from `pytransform/__init__.py`
* Execute `pyarmor_runtime`
    * Load dynamic library `_pytransform` by `ctypes`
    * Check `license.lic` in the same path
    * Add there builtin functions `__pyarmor__`, `__enter_armor__`, `__exit_armor__`

After that:

* Call `__pyarmor__` to import the obfuscated module.
* Call `__enter_armor__` to restore code object of function before executing each function
* Call `__exit_armor__` to obfuscate code object of function after each function return

More information, refer to :ref:`How to Obfuscate Scripts` and :ref:`How to Run Obfuscated Scripts`

Key Points to Use Obfuscated Scripts
------------------------------------

* The obfuscated scripts are normal python scripts, so they can be seamless to
  replace original scripts.

* There is only one thing changed, the `runtime package`_ must be in any Python
  Path, so that the `bootstrap code`_ can run at first.

* The `bootstrap code`_ will load dynamic library `_pytransform` by `ctypes`. It
  may be

    - `_pytransform.so` in Linux
    - `_pytransform.dll` in Windows
    - `_pytransform.dylib` in MacOS

  This file is dependent-platform, all the prebuilt dynamic libraries list here
  :ref:`Support Platfroms`

* By default the `bootstrap code`_ searchs dynamic library `_pytransform` in the
  `runtime package`_. Check `pytransform._load_library` to find the details.

* If the dynamic library `_pytransform` isn't within the `runtime package`_,
  change the `bootstrap code`::

    from pytransform import pyarmor_runtime
    pyarmor_runtime('/path/to/runtime')

  Both of `license.lic` and `pytransform.key` should be in this runtime path
  either.

* When starts a fresh python interpreter process by `multiprocssing`, `Popen`,
  `os.exec` etc., make sure the `bootstrap code`_ are called in new process
  before running any obfuscated script.

.. include:: _common_definitions.txt
